---
layout: post
title: Why A Blog?
date:   2015-01-15 13:08:00
categories: posts
---

## Why?

This article was going to be part of the main page, but it seemed that such a strong unforgiving ramble might be a little off putting for a first glance. So I thought it best to break it off into a little blog article of its own. The purpose of the article is to offer a reason as to why I, rather hypocritically, started this silly little "blog" - hate that word.

Why is a super question. Why bother with a personal website? I have often wondered the very same thing when coming across various personal sites, the purpose of which in unclear. But really there are two "Why" questions here. 
Why 1: would somebody bother investing time, effort and potentially money into building a website, the sole purpose of which is to convey ones thoughts and opinions to the general populous at large? How can one be so self important such that they think their thoughts even matter, and how can one be so arrogant that they think others should sit down, switch on their computer and read about it. I do not refer to how-to blogs, helpful articles, or anything else that actively attempts to actually add value to the reader. But rather sites which offer useless opinions, thoughts and feelings, the likes of which the world would continue to rotate without. FYI, this is one such blog. The second Why, is far more simple to articulate, and far more difficult to answer. 
Why 2: do people bother reading. And it's this Why that baffles me entirely.

It seems that as individuals we crave the recognition of others. We yearn to be talked about, or have our thoughts and opinions talked about. We appreciate the feeling that somebody, somewhere actually cares what we have to say on a particular subject. This has become even more apparent over the last decade with the rise of social media, an easy and free outlet for our thoughts - and ironically the mask with which we hide our true selves just incase those thoughts are wrong.

So that's why.

---

*This could probably do with some more detail, but I am rather short on time and I'm not sure how the drafts function works yet.*